Troubleshooting Elasticsearch Upgrades (#6396)
elastic/docs-content: troubleshoot/elasticsearch/troubleshooting-upgrades.md

---
navigation_title: "Troubleshoot upgrades"
description: "Common upgrade issues and resolutions."
type: troubleshooting
applies_to:
  stack: ga
products:
  - id: elasticsearch
---

# Troubleshoot upgrades [troubleshooting-upgrades]

Usually, [{{es}} upgrades](/deploy-manage/upgrade/deployment-or-cluster/elasticsearch.md) proceed smoothly due to due diligence in upgrade [planning](/deploy-manage/upgrade/plan-upgrade.md) and [preparation](/deploy-manage/upgrade/prepare-to-upgrade.md). 

> To avoid majority of errors discussed below, ensure to resolve all [Upgrade Assistant](/deploy-manage/upgrade/prepare-to-upgrade/upgrade-assistant.md) critical items before beginning upgrading. For more information, refer to [Troubleshoot Upgrade Assistant](/troubleshoot/elasticsearch/troubleshooting-upgrade-assistant.md).

Author: ```suggestion
To avoid majority of errors discussed in the following sections, ensure to resolve all [Upgrade Assistant](/deploy-manage/upgrade/prepare-to-upgrade/upgrade-assistant.md) critical items before beginning upgrading. For more information, refer to [Troubleshoot Upgrade Assistant](/troubleshoot/elasticsearch/troubleshooting-upgrade-assistant.md).
```
